---
layout: post
title:  "New Year New Start"
date:   2018-01-21 17:00:00
author: Nathan Butt
categories:
- New Year Messages
- Summery
img:
thumb:
published: false
---

Hello everyone and happy new year (a bit late I know). I hope last year went well for you all and I would just like to take some time to explain what I've been up to over the Christmas break and what my plans are for the coming year.

Its safe to say that last semester was a very busy time. With deadlines now out of the way I hope to build on what I learned last semester to have a much smoother time of it.

So what have I been up to then, well...

<!--more-->

## Assignments
It should be no surprise that most of last semester was spend working on my assignments. Since my last post I have completed several assignments ranging from designing a 3D level to creating that endless runner game I was on about. Whilst these assignments were challenging in there own respective ways, these tasks served as a great excuse to try out new approaches and ideas.

This is especially true for the Game Engine Architecture assignment. In this assignment we were tasked with implementing a particular effect for use in video game. There were five options that we were allowed to pick from and I chose to create a grass rendering system that would be capable of creating an effect of a field of grass spanning across the environment.

I decided for this effect to attempt to create a geometry shader which would construct grass shards based an input geometry data set such as that provided by the

## Exploring



## Plans for the year



<!--TODO - finish this blogpost. -->
